(calm music)
Alright, in this
video we are going to complete the
assignment to go ahead and refactor the RecipeService
to use reactive types,
so we wanna be using the reactive repository,
for recipe repository,
and also be returning reactive types
with all the method calls on that.
So a couple things that we need to there
so I'm gonna go through this step-by-step and refactor it.
First thing we want to do is change the RecipeRepository.
See this is gonna cause a number of changes.
And again I am creating
all those injected things there
to utilize private final
so we do have to run the constructor
and then once we're inside,
we can't change any of those injected properties.
Just gonna go through here,
findAll and,
we wanna do a block.
Now that's not gonna work
so I am going to comment that out right now
and we are gonna have to come back to that.
Not a simple fix there
and looking at this code
we want to completely refactor that too.
And that will no longer be an Optional.
So this is gonna become a Recipe.
And of course we're gonna say if it's null.
And we'll return back the recipe here on the,
findById,
and this also is gonna be refactored
so we wanna be returning back that Mono,
so we'll need to add in some different logic there.
So this set will at least get us compiling
and then the next thing we wanna be changing
is to the reactive types.
So what we wanna return back here
this is gonna be getting a new HashSet,
but we wanna do a...
and in this case here,
we wanna get that request from people.
findAll.
So actually that's gonna change to that.
And in this case, again,
we are going to make it return that.
So now that's changing that,
and we can also see that the
By doing that with IntelliJ
the interface changes itself too.
So, that's exactly what we want there.
And here we wanna return back a Mono.
And rather than doing this,
we can just change that.
Refactor this.
And all that goes away.
You can see that's breaking some of the logic
we had in there.
We're not finding stuff, but we wanna
make that handle that upstream.
So our findCommandById, that's going to change.
Recipe, RecipeCommand.
And looking at that, and actually transactional
we don't need that anymore.
So that is specific to JPA.
And I need to put some thought to that
because we are gonna do a conversion there.
Some, not quite sure how we can do that
without blocking, so we need to some refactoring there.
So I need to think about that.
And I may pause that and come back to that.
That's also a transactional that also goes away.
So we have a number of things here that we've changed.
And, we know where this is touching
is not gonna be happy, so I'm gonna go ahead
and just say run the test.
I know we're gonna get some compile time errors.
And of course we did.
And here we wanna be returning a Mono.
So we can do Mono.just().
Save recipe.
So now this is gonna be functioning similarly to before.
And now our RecipeServiceImplTest
is going to change.
Now we want this.
I'm just changing the types there.
We'll go back and change them all.
So now our new recipe findById
and now we wanna say block.
So that'll get that reactive type.
And this Optional,
we don't need the Optional anymore.
So that can go away.
And we'll do...
So now we'll use the Mono function there
to return back a Mono which just a recipe inside of it.
And we don't need that.
We can...
Also say...
And, actually this NotFoundException
is not gonna work anymore
so I'm just gonna get rid of that.
That test goes away.
And we don't need the Optional anymore.
But we do need to return back a Mono here.
getRecipes() so the recipe data that we want to do is...
Looks just...
Alright, let's see here, recipeService dot...
Nope, that's not what we want.
And here we need to do something different.
Pause this real quick.
And we're coming back with a set here,
I'm not sure if we need to at this point,
so I'm going to say collectList,
we'll change this to a List as well.
I may revisit that in the future.
And, oops, we also want to do a block here.
So, basically we have a Flux coming back.
Now Flux has multiple elements,
and we're dealing with a stream of elements here.
And so, we're gonna say collect as a list and block that.
So, this test should run now.
Let's see if our compile is happy again.
Nope.
IndexController get...
We're gonna have a similar problem here.
So we're gonna get that, not quite sure if that'll work.
But we'll see, make sure,
because we're returning back a Flux there.
Go ahead and run these and see what fails.
We are compiling now,
but our test probably will not pass here.
Did get one fail in that inside the index page.
And that is not happy because cannot be cast to a Set.
Let's do a List.
See if that runs now.
Re-run the failing test there.
And take a closer look at that, so...
We have a Flux that cannot be cast to a...
Wait a minute, can't target value...
And this is actually gonna be a Flux.
Taking a closer look at what we're doing here
so we're gonna return back a Flux here.
ArgumentCaptor...
This should be a little happier.
Okay, jumped ahead just quickly,
and made a couple changes.
I was doing a Flux from recipe,
and that was a mistake.
I wanna do a Flux from recipes.
And here, there's a Flux fromIterable,
so I'm passing in the recipes there.
So that gives me a Flux with two recipes in it.
And now, I refactor to use a list.
So I do a Flux in the controller collectList,
and then block, and then assertEquals.
And we change out to the recipeList.
So, just quickly can see before we were doing a Set,
and we're just checking that set there,
but now we're working with the Flux type.
And we have to go in and collect it.
So, now we can go in and run our test.
You can see that test is running,
and we'll run the full suite of tests,
so now our unit tests are running.
And all our tests are green.
And let's come back over to our service implementation.
Take a closer look at this
and clean up any last minute code.
So, we are no longer returning a Set.
And we are just doing the findAll there.
So we don't need to do that.
We are returning the Mono back directly from
the recipe repository provided by Spring Data MongoDB.
And let's see here, this command object...
This I can
actually convert I believe.
Let's get back to that one.
So, in this one here, we're coming in,
this is a save recipe, so we're gonna come in
from a command, we're gonna convert it.
We're gonna save it, block.
And then convert it back,
so that'd be a little tricky to do reactively.
And then here, our delete.
So we're gonna do deleteById,
and we missed the block activity there.
So, we do wanna do the block in the delete,
because if we just ignore that return type
that Mono is never gonna get triggered
to do it's thing in the database.
This one up here, I believe I can convert that.
findById ByCommand, so I'm gonna give that a shot
I'm gonna pause this,
so you don't have to sit through that.
I'll be right back.
Alright, I jumped ahead a little bit,
and I did refactor a few things in our class here
and made it a little more reactive.
So, look at like 48, there.
So I'm doing a return, so this is the findById.
You can see in the commented code below,
starting on line 60, the old code,
but up on line 48, so we go in, we do a findById
on the reactive repository.
And then on line 49 we're gonna do a map.
This map function is gonna take a recipe
that was returned back by the repository
and convert it to a RecipeCommand.
And remember, we were enhancing that command
with the ID value of the recipe.
So we're gonna go ahead and add that into our model.
And then we're gonna return that back,
that RecipeCommand back.
So you can see that this is what we were doing
kind of on line 60, we'd get the RecipeCommand
and then we'd go through the ingredients
and update them.
So, this little block of code here
is the same block of code that we have here.
So we go back and enhance that recipeCommand.
So I'm gonna go ahead and delete this, this comment.
So, now we have a little better, cleaner code.
And then, also we had our Recipe that we were working with.
And, this is actually original code,
so I'm going to get rid of that.
We don't need the detachedRecipe anymore.
But the saveRecipeCommand, we're able to go in
and do the save function on it,
and we do a convert.
Now we are returning back a Mono,
so I'm going to get rid of this original code.
So, the original code created detachedRecipe,
saved it, and then...
I was going back so you can see we were...
I was iterating over that,
I took a closer look at that, and said,
"Oh, we can actually do that."
And realized that we were turning back the type,
and rather than not the publisher there.
So, publisher being Mono.
So, I'm gonna delete that other code there.
And also this
stuff here so I can see that our repository's
getting a little cleaner here.
And the other thing I wanna point out here is
the command objects were not Monos, but they are now.
And I've refactored everything to that.
Had to refactor a number of tests there,
so I'm gonna go ahead and run the tests.
Show you that these are running now.
See that all the tests pass.
Let's go ahead and run this also.
And hopefully everything is happy.
Because this video is getting a little long in the tooth.
So let's come back over here.
And we are getting an error.
Let's take a quick look at that.
Ah, okay.
Let me pause this, we can fix that.
Okay, just needed to make a couple minor tweaks.
I'll show you exactly what I did.
What was happening here,
you can see that we're using model.addAttribute(),
recipeService.getRecipes(),
well we were returning back the reactive type
into the view layer.
So when you add an attribute like that,
there is no type checking to it,
so you're just adding an object
to the property of recipes.
So, in this case we were adding in a reactive object,
in this case a Flux, and the Thymeleaf layer
didn't know what to do with it
because we haven't set that up yet.
So, at this point we still need
to keep the web layer to non-reactive types
until we set up Thymeleaf to handle that.
So I had to go in, say getRecipes,
collect as a list, and then block.
And that's gonna return back an ArrayList
to our IndexController,
and I also had to do that in a couple spots here.
So, like on the show, so we had to add in the block here,
as we dealt with the service so everything's happy
but I can come over here and show you now, refresh this.
Actually I probably need to start it.
So, let's go back and start it now.
We can see that we are up and running on that.
Let's go ahead and refresh this.
So now we can see our recipes are there,
we can go back and view them.
Let's make sure we can do an edit.
So that edit is working.
And we'll do a double check of the delete.
Make sure we can still delete a recipe.
And that is also functional.
So, now our CRUD operations are fully functional,
with the reactive types, again,
our view layer is not using reactive types
we are going to get into that in a future video,
right now we do have reactive going from
the controller layer back to MongoDB and back.
And I did make a few changes there,
and encourage you to review them.
I know this reactive stuff can get tricky,
that's why I'm spending the extra time
to go though it step-by-step,
and showing you how this reactive stuff is working,
because it is quite a different paradigm
to be dealing with.